README.md, before:

## Deal Contracts System

This repo consists of 3 main parts:

- `src` - Foundry contracts (read more https://book.getfoundry.sh/). Generally, repo
  follow structure of Foundry repo.
- `subgraph` - javascript client to interact with the graph node, called subgraph (read more
  https://thegraph.com/docs/quick-start), [README](subgraph/README.md)
- `ts-client` - npm package from contract developers to interact with contracts, more in [README](ts-client/README.md)
- `integration-tests` - npm module to prepare integration tests for Deal contracts flow, more in [README](integration-tests/README.md)

To access to the general points of the each part in the repo root **makefile**
is presented. Below are main commands of the makefile.

| The root [package.json](package.json) consists of dev packages for prettier and code linting via **Husky**.
More about in

# Table of contents

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Deal Contracts System](#deal-contracts-system)

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Contract](#contract)
  - [Env](#env)
    - [Notable Env](#notable-env)
  - [Makefile](#makefile)
    - [Install NPM packages](#install-npm-packages)
    - [Build](#build)
      - [Build contracts and deal-ts-clients and subgraph](#build-contracts-and-deal-ts-clients-and-subgraph)
      - [Build only contracts](#build-only-contracts)
      - [Build only in npm packages](#build-only-in-npm-packages)
    - [Start Local Subgraph](#start-local-subgraph)
    - [Start local network using docker](#start-local-network-using-docker)
    - [Start local network locally](#start-local-network-locally)
    - [Deploy to network](#deploy-to-network)
  - [Test](#test)
  - [Format](#format)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Gas Snapshots](#gas-snapshots)
- [Subgraph (Contract Indexer)](#subgraph-contract-indexer)
  - [Development Tricks & Tips](#development-tricks--tips)
- [Development Guide](#development-guide)
  - [Lint and Prettier](#lint-and-prettier)
  - [Configure Pre Commit Hook](#configure-pre-commit-hook)
    - [ToDo:](#todo)
  - [Setup Deal Infrastructure](#setup-deal-infrastructure)
  - [Tips](#tips)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Requirements

Full requirements to develop in this repo.

- foundry (https://book.getfoundry.sh/)
- makefile (TODO)
- node version 18.16

# Contract

To work with contracts we use forge (foundry): to deploy, to test unittests. Thus, to work in the repo you first of all should install Foundry: https://book.getfoundry.sh/

To run foundry commands and commands that create artifacts and insert contract artifacts into packages/modules: ts-client, subgraph we use `makefile` (and we use makefile for even further steps after: to build & deploy those modules after injecting artefacts of contracts into them).

## Env

Because scripts and makefile supports env (actually makefile reads env from .env) we note that in the repo we leave [.example.env](.example.env).

### Notable Env

Below is the list of env. For description we aim you to [.example.env](.example.env) directly.

- PRIVATE_KEY
- LOCAL_CHAIN_BLOCK_MINING_INTERVAL
- MAX_FAILED_RATIO
- IS_MOCKED_RANDOMX

## Makefile

Below is some of useful **makefile** commands with their descriptions.

To check out all commands and their descriptions run `make help`.

### Install NPM packages

```shell
$ make install-npms
```

### Build

#### Build contracts and deal-ts-clients and subgraph

```shell
$ make build-all
```

#### Build only contracts

```shell
$ make build-contracts
```

#### Build only in npm packages

```shell
$ make build-npms
```

### Start Local Subgraph

```shell
$ make deploy-subgraph-local
```

### Start local network using docker

```shell
$ docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up
```

RPC: [http://0.0.0.0:8545](http://0.0.0.0:8545)

Explorer: [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)

### Start local network locally

```shell
$ make start-local-chain
```

```shell
$ make deploy-contracts-local
```

### Deploy to network

```shell
$ PRIVATE_KEY=${} make deploy-{network_name}
```

## Test

- Contracts

```shell
$ forge test
```

- TS Clients

```shell
cd ts-client && npm test unittests
cd ts-client && npm test integrational-tests
```

## Format

```shell
$ forge fmt
```

## Troubleshooting

Error on `make <soemthing>`:
`No such file or directory (os error 2); check configured remappings.`

> `git submodule update --init --recursive`

## Gas Snapshots

```shell
$ forge snapshot
```

# Subgraph (Contract Indexer)

It is a backend for the contracts that collects info from contract events into
graphQL schemes.

For more info check out [README.md](subgraph/README.md).

## Development Tricks & Tips

After [starting local network](#start-local-network-locally) you could create
market on our contracts:

```shell
$ make create-pure-market-local
```

# Development Guide

## Lint and Prettier

In the monorepo we use general code style defined in [.editorconfig](.editorconfig) and mirrored in [.prettierrc](.prettierrc) (it is mirrored coz of this [issue](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/15401)).

> Note, that in repo CI process maintain the prettier check.

## Configure Pre Commit Hook

To install pre-commit follow instruction here: https://pre-commit.com/

## Setup Deal Infrastructure

> TODO: add flow on how to work with already built images from registry.

Let`s suppose you want to boot up local network and subgraph (thus, all deal infrastructure) to develop on the repo locally.

1. Clone this repo. Clone with submodules, e.g.: `git submodule update --init --recursive`

````bash
2. Start local chain node containers (chain, explorer, deploy script):

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d --build
````

| Note, you can omit `--build` flag if you have already built images locally, nothing to rebuild.

| Note, that `chain-deploy-script` will produce `deployment/local.json` file that is used in
the next steps.

3. Prepare npm packages:

```bash
make install-npms
make build-npms
```

4. Deploy subgraph:

```bash
make deploy-subgraph-local
```

5. [Optional] Since contracts are fresh and empty you can fill them with test
   data:

```bash
make create-pure-market-local
```

## Tips

- To stop and cleanup dev environment run:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down --volumes
```

- To redeploy contracts:

```bash
make deploy-contracts-local
```

and do not forget to repeat from 3d step (depends on your needs).

Commit message:

feat: matcher tests [chain-434] (#442)
* refactor to sep module

* refactor fixtures and comment 1 test

* resolve positive test of matcher finally

* add 2nd positive test case and refactor code

* check for blacklisted providers

* add AccessType enum to client

* refactor to separate module

* bump readme

* add flush

* add flush

* add workflow

* flush

* do not run unittests for clients in test for contracts

* add todo for rename

* adjust workflow for new tests

* flush

* move integration test for clients into sep. module

* flush

* * tune test
* fix workflow

* debug

* debug

* debug

* debug

* debug

* rm market script

* uncomment test again

* flush

* bump readmes

* tune todo

* fix for review

* set up test

* some improvements

* up

* Update local.json

* Update local.json

* Update local.json

* Update local.json

* Update local.json

---------

Co-authored-by: Artsiom Shamsutdzinau <shamsartem@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: fluencebot <devops@fluence.one>

README.md, after:

## Deal Contracts System

This repo consists of 3 main parts:

- `src` - Foundry contracts (read more https://book.getfoundry.sh/). Generally, repo
  follow structure of Foundry repo.
- `subgraph` - javascript client to interact with the graph node, called subgraph (read more
  https://thegraph.com/docs/quick-start), [README](subgraph/README.md)
- `ts-client` - npm package from contract developers to interact with contracts, more in [README](ts-client/README.md)
- `integration-tests-contracts` - npm module to store integration tests for Deal contracts flow, more in [README](integration-tests-contracts/README.md)
- `integration-tests-clients` - npm module to store integration tests for clients of the Fluence Contracts, e.g. Fluence Network Client, Offchain Matcher, more in [README](integration-tests-clients/README.md)

To access to the general points of the each part in the repo root **makefile**
is presented. Below are main commands of the makefile.

| The root [package.json](package.json) consists of dev packages for prettier and code linting via **Husky**.
More about in

# Table of contents

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Deal Contracts System](#deal-contracts-system)

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Contract](#contract)
  - [Env](#env)
    - [Notable Env](#notable-env)
  - [Makefile](#makefile)
    - [Install NPM packages](#install-npm-packages)
    - [Build](#build)
      - [Build contracts and deal-ts-clients and subgraph](#build-contracts-and-deal-ts-clients-and-subgraph)
      - [Build only contracts](#build-only-contracts)
      - [Build only in npm packages](#build-only-in-npm-packages)
    - [Start Local Subgraph](#start-local-subgraph)
    - [Start local network using docker](#start-local-network-using-docker)
    - [Start local network locally](#start-local-network-locally)
    - [Deploy to network](#deploy-to-network)
  - [Test](#test)
  - [Format](#format)
  - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Gas Snapshots](#gas-snapshots)
- [Subgraph (Contract Indexer)](#subgraph-contract-indexer)
  - [Development Tricks & Tips](#development-tricks--tips)
- [Development Guide](#development-guide)
  - [Lint and Prettier](#lint-and-prettier)
  - [Configure Pre Commit Hook](#configure-pre-commit-hook)
    - [ToDo:](#todo)
  - [Setup Deal Infrastructure](#setup-deal-infrastructure)
  - [Tips](#tips)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Requirements

Full requirements to develop in this repo.

- foundry (https://book.getfoundry.sh/)
- makefile (TODO)
- node version 18.16

# Contract

To work with contracts we use forge (foundry): to deploy, to test unittests. Thus, to work in the repo you first of all should install Foundry: https://book.getfoundry.sh/

To run foundry commands and commands that create artifacts and insert contract artifacts into packages/modules: ts-client, subgraph we use `makefile` (and we use makefile for even further steps after: to build & deploy those modules after injecting artefacts of contracts into them).

## Env

Because scripts and makefile supports env (actually makefile reads env from .env) we note that in the repo we leave [.example.env](.example.env).

### Notable Env

Below is the list of env. For description we aim you to [.example.env](.example.env) directly.

- PRIVATE_KEY
- LOCAL_CHAIN_BLOCK_MINING_INTERVAL
- MAX_FAILED_RATIO
- IS_MOCKED_RANDOMX

## Makefile

Below is some of useful **makefile** commands with their descriptions.

To check out all commands and their descriptions run `make help`.

### Install NPM packages

```shell
$ make install-npms
```

### Build

#### Build contracts and deal-ts-clients and subgraph

```shell
$ make build-all
```

#### Build only contracts

```shell
$ make build-contracts
```

#### Build only in npm packages

```shell
$ make build-npms
```

### Start Local Subgraph

```shell
$ make deploy-subgraph-local
```

### Start local network using docker

```shell
$ docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up
```

RPC: [http://0.0.0.0:8545](http://0.0.0.0:8545)

Explorer: [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)

### Start local network locally

```shell
$ make start-local-chain
```

```shell
$ make deploy-contracts-local
```

### Deploy to network

```shell
$ PRIVATE_KEY=${} make deploy-{network_name}
```

## Test

- Contracts

```shell
$ forge test
```

- TS Clients

```shell
cd ts-client && npm test unittests
cd ts-client && npm test integrational-tests
```

## Format

```shell
$ forge fmt
```

## Troubleshooting

Error on `make <soemthing>`:
`No such file or directory (os error 2); check configured remappings.`

> `git submodule update --init --recursive`

## Gas Snapshots

```shell
$ forge snapshot
```

# Subgraph (Contract Indexer)

It is a backend for the contracts that collects info from contract events into
graphQL schemes.

For more info check out [README.md](subgraph/README.md).

## Development Tricks & Tips

After [starting local network](#start-local-network-locally) you could create
market on our contracts:

```shell
$ make create-pure-market-local
```

# Development Guide

## Lint and Prettier

In the monorepo we use general code style defined in [.editorconfig](.editorconfig) and mirrored in [.prettierrc](.prettierrc) (it is mirrored coz of this [issue](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/15401)).

> Note, that in repo CI process maintain the prettier check.

## Configure Pre Commit Hook

To install pre-commit follow instruction here: https://pre-commit.com/

## Setup Deal Infrastructure

> TODO: add flow on how to work with already built images from registry.

Let`s suppose you want to boot up local network and subgraph (thus, all deal infrastructure) to develop on the repo locally.

1. Clone this repo. Clone with submodules, e.g.: `git submodule update --init --recursive`

````bash
2. Start local chain node containers (chain, explorer, deploy script):

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d --build
````

| Note, you can omit `--build` flag if you have already built images locally, nothing to rebuild.

| Note, that `chain-deploy-script` will produce `deployment/local.json` file that is used in
the next steps.

3. Prepare npm packages:

```bash
make install-npms
make build-npms
```

4. Deploy subgraph:

```bash
make deploy-subgraph-local
```

5. [Optional] Since contracts are fresh and empty you can fill them with test
   data:

```bash
make create-pure-market-local
```

## Tips

- To stop and cleanup dev environment run:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down --volumes
```

- To redeploy contracts:

```bash
make deploy-contracts-local
```

and do not forget to repeat from 3d step (depends on your needs).
