subgraph/README.md, before:

# Subgraph

# Project Structure

- `docker-compose.yaml` - instruction for Docker containers to create local dev environment with **local graph node** connected to **local hardhat node** (for instruction how to use - check [#Develop](#Develop) section below).
- `subgraph.yaml` - The Graph configuration schema to collect rules of indexing and querying contracts event via handlers.
- `schema.graphql` - The subgraph GraphQL schema of types those are indexed and available for querying.
- `mappings.ts` - consists of event handlers and populating logic of schema.graphql above.
- `build/` - The auto-generated folder by The Graph's CLI
- `generated/` - The auto-generated folder by The Graph's CLI

# Develop
To start local development with TheGraph and Hardhat:

> Note, that when you are working with upgradeble contracts - you leave addresses of proxies, but ABIs of real implementations. Thus, [importContractsAbi.ts](scripts/importContractsAbi.ts) should be maintained with implementations only, and [subgraph.yaml](subgraph.yaml) with addresses of proxies only.

## Setup Environment for Local Subgraph
1. Run hardhat node from the **root** of the project:
```bash
npx hardhat node --hostname 0.0.0.0 
```

2. Run Graph Node with help of Docker Compose and [instruction](graph-node/docker-compose.yaml):
```bash
cd graph-node && docker-compose up
```

## Dev in Subgraph Repo
How to run install package and build artifacts flow is below.

0. Add abi of contracts you are going to work with:
```bash
npm run import-contracts-abi
```

2. Build artifacts and generate the **AssemblyScript** types from the sources:
```bash
npm i
npm run compile
```

2. Create the subgraph
```bash
npm run create:local
```

4. Deploy the subgraph on local graph node
> Note, that it will get localhost contract addresses and block number from [networks.json](config/networks.json) and inserts into subgraph.yaml.

```bash
npm run deploy:local 
```

Since now, you have GUI of the deployed graph: http://localhost:8000/subgraphs/name/<YourContractName>

## Query through GUI
E.g. the graph query to insert in http://localhost:8000/subgraphs/name/<YourContractName>:
```graphql
{
  offers {
    id
    computeUnitsAvailable
    peers {
      id
      computeUnits
    }
  }
}
```

## Tricks & Tips
If you updated contract and want to push this update to the subgraph, I could recommend 1 fully features command:

but first: you should deploy on localhost your updated contract, e.g. `npx hardhat deploy --network localhost`

```bash
ts-node scripts/importContractsAbi.ts && npm run compile && npm run create-local && npm run deploy:local
```

# Deploy 

## To Localhost
Check `## Dev in Subgraph Repo` section.

## To TheGraph Studio [not for subnets]
> Note, this solution is only for **dev querying** or for **L1** deploy on some networks. 

E.g. for the **Mumbai** network

1. Auth in the Graph with deployKey from GUI
```bash
graph auth --studio <deployKey>
```

> Before deploy on **Mumbai** check that `subgraph.yml` consists of mumbai **contract address** and **suitable block number**, 
>  and network to **mumbai**.

2. Deploy
> Note, that bia command below it will get mumbai contract addresses and block number from [networks.json](config/networks.json) and inserts into subgraph.yaml.

```bash
npm run deploy:studio:stage
```

## To Hosted Service [not for subnets]
> Note, this solution for deploy only on supported testnets, and instead of  **Studio** deploy it gives you full featured query API for free (not simple dev quiery). 

0. Get your token: https://thegraph.com/docs/en/deploying/deploying-a-subgraph-to-hosted/#store-the-access-token
```bash
graph auth --product hosted-service <token>
```

E.g. according to the site after login from Github:
```bash
graph deploy --product hosted-service --network mumbai <githubName>/fluence-deal-contracts
```

# TODO
- [ ] integrate subgraph more smoothly with hardhat, and esp. with hardhat-deploy plugin
- [ ] use subgraph templating as it used with the graph project contracts
- [ ] check again https://github.com/graphprotocol/hardhat-graph-demo to find the solution for **auto-populating subgraph.yaml with events**
- [ ] add docker-compose commands to package.json
- [ ] subgraph tests
- [ ] fix docker versions
- [ ] it is mb better to flag CU and etc as removed instead of deleting as it is in, e.g. `store.remove('ComputeUnit', computeUnitEntity.id)`
- [ ] rm warn about to hexString instead of hex()

Commit message:

feat: add subgraph body to client [chain 203] (#146)
* init

* typo

* * add first TS schemes
* describe flow

* * renamed to types
* resolve getOffers

* * add todo for deprecation and deprecate [check all]
* add offerDetail View

* add fragment to graphql

* * add stats to Provider scheme
* fix according to lint

* provider stats are required

* * resolve getProviders

* add counters to provider

* add get provider by id

* add filters

* fix graph node image version

* resolve deals in client

* add todo

* separate filters

* todos

* add todo

* bump readme

* bump readme

* log error properly

* * move from graph client to simple one
* resolve filter problems
* add separate graph client
* add codegen

* bump readme

* add generated tss

* rm apollo client

* bump README.md

* rm config

* upd address with localhost in subgraph

* workaround anvil node

* bumps jsons

* add hint

* add access to Network

* mv dealIndexerClient
rename to dealExplorerClient

* resolve move with fix of imports

* move codegen.ts

* rm source package of deal-explorer-client

* fix ts-client

* introduce hints

* rm todo

* add Multicall3 and deploy

* add dev Dockers

* deploy to mumbai

* upd dev dockerfile

* move dirrectory

* fix merge error

* bump dockerfile

* resolve imports

* bump package lock

* add node version req

* * resolve recursive deployments/
* add dealExplorerClient
* add ts-ignore to dealExplorerClient.ts

* fix subgraph

* deprecate abis

* fix codegen paths

* fix in paths

* fixes according to streak esm

* fix double await

* fix config

* bump readme

* add agenda

---------

Co-authored-by: elshan_eth <raiman.elshan@gmail.com>

subgraph/README.md, after:

# Subgraph

# Project Structure

- `docker-compose.yaml` - instruction for Docker containers to create local dev environment with **local graph node** connected to **local hardhat node** (for instruction how to use - check [#Develop](#Develop) section below).
- `subgraph.yaml` - The Graph configuration schema to collect rules of indexing and querying contracts event via handlers.
- `schema.graphql` - The subgraph GraphQL schema of types those are indexed and available for querying.
- `mappings.ts` - consists of event handlers and populating logic of `schema.graphql` above.
- `build/` - The auto-generated folder by The Graph's CLI
- `generated/` - The auto-generated folder by The Graph's CLI

# Develop
To start local development with TheGraph and Hardhat:

> Note, that when you are working with upgradeble contracts - you leave addresses of proxies, but ABIs of real implementations. Thus, [importContractsAbi.ts](scripts/importContractsAbi.ts) should be maintained with implementations only, and [subgraph.yaml](subgraph.yaml) with addresses of proxies only.

## Setup Environment for Local Subgraph
1. Run hardhat node from the **root** of the project:
```bash
npx hardhat node --hostname 0.0.0.0 
```

2. Run Graph Node with help of Docker Compose: [docker-compose.yml](subgraph/docker-compose.yaml):
```bash
cd subgraph && docker-compose up
```

## Dev in Subgraph Repo
How to run install package and build artifacts flow is below.

0. Ensure you use preferred contract version according to the [subgraph.yaml](subgraph.yaml) 

1. Build artifacts and generate the **AssemblyScript** types from the sources:
```bash
npm i
npm run compile
```

2. Create the subgraph
```bash
npm run create:local
```

3. Deploy the subgraph on local graph node
> Note, that it will get localhost contract addresses and block number from [networks.json](config/networks.json) and inserts into subgraph.yaml.

```bash
npm run deploy:local 
```

Since now, you have GUI of the deployed graph: http://localhost:8000/subgraphs/name/<YourContractName>

## Query through GUI
E.g. the graph query to insert in http://localhost:8000/subgraphs/name/<YourContractName>:
```graphql
{
  offers {
    id
    computeUnitsAvailable
    peers {
      id
      computeUnits
    }
  }
}
```

## Tricks & Tips
If you updated contract and want to push this update to the subgraph, I could recommend 1 fully features command:

but first: you should deploy on localhost your updated contract, e.g. `npx hardhat deploy --network localhost`

```bash
npm run compile && npm run create:local && npm run deploy:local
```

# Deploy 

## To Localhost
Check `## Dev in Subgraph Repo` section.

## To TheGraph Studio [not for subnets]
> Note, this solution is only for **dev querying** or for **L1** deploy on some networks. 

E.g. for the **Mumbai** network

1. Auth in the Graph with deployKey from GUI
```bash
graph auth --studio <deployKey>
```

> Before deploy on **Mumbai** check that `subgraph.yml` consists of mumbai **contract address** and **suitable block number**, 
>  and network to **mumbai**.

2. Deploy
> Note, that bia command below it will get mumbai contract addresses and block number from [networks.json](config/networks.json) and inserts into subgraph.yaml.

```bash
npm run deploy:studio:stage
```

## To Hosted Service [not for subnets]
> Note, this solution for deploy only on supported testnets, and instead of  **Studio** deploy it gives you full featured query API for free (not simple dev quiery). 

0. Get your token: https://thegraph.com/docs/en/deploying/deploying-a-subgraph-to-hosted/#store-the-access-token
```bash
graph auth --product hosted-service <token>
```

E.g. according to the site after login from Github:
```bash
graph deploy --product hosted-service --network mumbai <githubName>/fluence-deal-contracts
```

# TODO
- [ ] integrate subgraph more smoothly with hardhat, and esp. with hardhat-deploy plugin
- [ ] use subgraph templating as it used with the graph project contracts
- [ ] check again https://github.com/graphprotocol/hardhat-graph-demo to find the solution for **auto-populating subgraph.yaml with events**
- [ ] add docker-compose commands to package.json
- [ ] subgraph tests
- [ ] fix docker versions
- [ ] it is mb better to flag CU and etc as removed instead of deleting as it is in, e.g. `store.remove('ComputeUnit', computeUnitEntity.id)`
- [ ] rm warn about to hexString instead of hex()
- [ ] where is delete events? (e.g. peer deleted)
