integration-tests-clients/README.md, before:

# Integration Tests For Fluence Contract Clients

Repository for integrations tests with additional dependencies on Subgraph and Chain RPC. E.g.

-   [presented] Offchain matcher client [../ts-client/src/dealMatcherClient](../ts-client/src/dealMatcherClient)
-   [TODO] Fluence Cli client [../ts-client/src/dealCliClient](../ts-client/src/dealCliClient)
-   [TODO] Fluence Network Explorer Client [../ts-client/src/dealExplorerClient](../ts-client/src/dealExplorerClient)

# Run Tests

> To run these tests, you need the following services up and running: **subgraph**, **chain-rpc**.
> Moreover, Subgraph should be connected to the chain-rpc and index contracts deployed on that chain.

## Initialization

You may want to initialize the infrastructure for the tests in 2 ways:

-   [in case you are develop smth in this repo and want to test] from the sources of this repo
    -   this case will be covered below.
-   [in case you are not working directly with this repo] from the **already** published images
    -   this case is require to define image tags before run containers via `docker compose`,
        e.g. `export CHAIN_RPC=docker.fluence.dev/chain-rpc:feat-optimise-query-for-cc-CHAIN-452-5f1d332-3883-1 && docker compose up -d`

Prerequisites for the 1st case

-   You installed all dependencies from the root README.md (docker, forge/foundry, npm)
    -   TODO: leave instruction only for docker as we have multi target Docker image even with subgraph deploy script.
-   You are not working on Apple Silicon based machine (M1, ...) as we have some issues with docker-compose and docker on M1 for **Subgraph**.
    -   in case if you want to test on Apple Silicon - use remote server and run the infra on this remote host, for Apple Silicon on May 15 2024 there are no garanties that it will work.

Commands:

0. Install packages in this module

```bash
npm i
```

1. Run Infra

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up --no-deps ipfs chain-rpc postgres graph-node -d
```

2. Deploy contracts & Subgraph & Build package

```bash
make deploy-contracts-local && make build-all && make deploy-subgraph-local && cd ts-client && npm run build && npm pack
```

## Run

Run prepared tests

```bash
npm run test
```

Commit message:

exact naming for test and docs

integration-tests-clients/README.md, after:

# Integration Tests For Fluence Contract Clients

Repository for integrations tests with additional dependencies on Subgraph and Chain RPC. E.g.

-   [presented] Offchain matcher client [../ts-client/src/dealMatcherClient](../ts-client/src/dealMatcherClient)
-   [TODO] Fluence Cli client [../ts-client/src/dealCliClient](../ts-client/src/dealCliClient)
-   [presented] Fluence Network Explorer Client [../ts-client/src/dealExplorerClient](../ts-client/src/dealExplorerClient)

# Run Tests

To run these tests, you need the following services up and running: **subgraph**, **chain-rpc**.

> Moreover, Subgraph should be connected to the chain-rpc and index contracts deployed on that chain.

Note, that test nodes (e.g. Anvil) may have time "degradation" after long run.

You could experience it with those tests, especially in places where asserts rely on time checks.

## Initialization

You may want to initialize the infrastructure for the tests in 2 ways:

-   [in case you are develop smth in this repo and want to test] from the sources of this repo
    -   this case will be covered below.
-   [in case you are not working directly with this repo] from the **already** published images
    -   this case is require to define image tags before run containers via `docker compose`,
        e.g. `export CHAIN_RPC=docker.fluence.dev/chain-rpc:feat-optimise-query-for-cc-CHAIN-452-5f1d332-3883-1 && docker compose up -d`

Prerequisites for the 1st case

-   You installed all dependencies from the root README.md (docker, forge/foundry, npm)
    -   TODO: leave instruction only for docker as we have multi target Docker image even with subgraph deploy script.
-   You are not working on Apple Silicon based machine (M1, ...) as we have some issues with docker-compose and docker on M1 for **Subgraph**.
    -   in case if you want to test on Apple Silicon - use remote server and run the infra on this remote host, for Apple Silicon on May 15 2024 there are no garanties that it will work.

Commands:

0. Install packages in this module

```bash
npm i
```

1. Run Infra

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up --no-deps ipfs chain-rpc postgres graph-node -d
```

2. Deploy contracts & Subgraph & Build package

```bash
make deploy-contracts-local && make build-all && make deploy-subgraph-local && cd ts-client && npm run build && npm pack
```

## Run

Run prepared tests

```bash
npm run test
```
